---
date: 07/01/2022
---
# Distros (and other operating systems) suck for beginners
## Key binds
As a person who has used macOS, Windows, and "Linux" extensively, I feel like the usability of each operating system is all dependent on your prior experience. While Windows is the de facto operating system, every time I see someone else use Windows, I feel that simple keybinds that make navigating the operating system much faster is just not used. One simple example is using alt+tab or command+tab for macOS. While Windows has a panel on the bottom and macOS has a dock, if you are constantly switching between 2 apps, I don't see how it is more efficient to drag your mouse to the dock rather than use alt+tab. 

Another keybind which I think would be helpful for windows users is using win+(numbers) to open the corresponding app on the panel. I myself don't use this (even on Windows) as I am more used to the macOS life of using command+space and searching for the app. All these keybinds which drastically improve the usability of the operating system just left untouched by most users makes the OS feel much less feature rich. 

## User Interface
I feel that over time, many desktops are packed with more features with suggestions made by the community and executives, yet these features are often not showcased due to their nature being niche and only "useful" for a small group of power users. One example of this can be seen with macOS having a file preview in finder which can be accessed by pressing space. While this might be one of the more popular "niche" keybinds, it is super useful to quickly peak at the contents of a file especially in the Downloads folder if you just Save without picking location everytime. These features should be "taught" to the user especially these features which can improve the usability of the software by a significant amount. After switching from macOS to Linux, I use nautilus (with sushi) to have this quick preview feature albeit not liking how nautilus functions compared to dolphin (kde file manager). 

## Customization overload
As a person who has switched to Linux, I prefer the philosophy of having a lot of options. KDE is probably one of the most obnoxious for beginners with having so many settings. I don't think the amount of settings is bad nor is the sorting of these settings is bad, I believe that due to having so many settings, sorting becomes an issue as sometimes some settings are in a gray area and you just have to shove it into a certain category. Searching for the settings solves the sorting issue but it also isnt perfect with people who do not like a certain default settings not knowing that the settings can be changed. One example is the task switching being able to swap from being on the side to multiple different options. 

## The solution
One common solution that I have seen in some Linux distros is how they have a quick start guide which shows some "unique" features that the distro offers. I think this is very helpful for the certain group of people who are fine with going through this start guide. Yet this introduces another issue, many people dismiss this quick start guide. I myself don't really like quick start guides as I like to mess around with the software myself. When someone mentions a keybind that is used on macOS (as it is what I used for the longest time), if I never used it when I used macOS, I feel that it is something that is so no-brainer to use but because these operating systems not promoting these keybinds, it just feels very wasted to have these features but are not showcased. 

Going back to customization overload, I feel like KDE (and other operating systems) could improve with having a more minimal start guide with a showcase of KEY features that are commonly critized for not being what the user wants (such as task switching). Forcing customization of certain aspects of the operating system may not work as for new users as they never experienced how each setting affects the usability and for power users switching, it is more likely seen as a chore. 

In the end, I myself am not too sure how someone can promote these power user features to normal people and have it not intrusive on the experience. One of the difficult part of solving this is showcasing keybinds will likely end up being similar to video game pop ups just having a shitton of jargon just to tell the user a very detailed description of said feature. I honestly hate it (pop ups) and I feel like this isn't a full solution as it does not appeal to many.